# Geographic Information Systems in Education‣
####	 
Amanda D. Aragón
Geographic Information System (GIS) is an emerging science in information technology that incorporates data from geography, computer science, mathematics, statistics, management, surveying, and mapping science. 

---

GIS is a type of geospatial technology used in education. Information technology is quickly expanding and gaining ground in all economic and social spheres nowadays. Geographic Information System (GIS) is an emerging science in information technology that incorporates data from geography, computer science, mathematics, statistics, management, surveying, and mapping science (Wei, 2011). Both the government and the corporate sector use GIS in the operation and administration of resources, transportation networks, cadastral infrastructure, and natural resources (Jankowski, 2009). GIS is also an essential industry and educational subject, with over 100 academic departments using it at the university level (Korucu, 2012). The value of geographic information systems (GIS) in education is widely recognise, and GIS is now a powerful tool for students of geography, architecture, business management, natural resource management, natural science, public health and medicine, engineering, law, military science, social science and ecology, urbanization and planning to conduct research and present their findings. The following are some examples of GIS applications:

**Mapping locations:** Locations can be mapped using a geographic information system (GIS). Using basic maps, data gathering, and test analysis tools, GIS enables the construction of maps.
Quantity map: People make a quantity map, such as a location where the majority or minority lives, to identify areas that fit their needs and take action, or to see linkages between locations. This adds to the information provided by just mapping the position of the features.

**Overcrowding on the Map:** While you can see the emphasis by simply mapping the feature regions, it might be difficult to discern which areas have larger concentrations than others in areas with many features. The density map allows you to count the number of features in a given region using the same unit, such as hectares or square miles, so you can see the distribution clearly.  

**Finding distances:** GIS may be used to see what is going on inside a specific feature distance.

**Mapping and monitoring change:** GIS can be used to map changes in location in order to predict future conditions, decide on a course of action, or assess action outcomes or policy.

As GIS technology becomes more integrated into a wider range of businesses, so does the demand for qualified personnel. This is an excellent chance to include Geographic Information Systems in a bachelor's or master's degree programme. In this context, we propose to explain the nature and features of GIS, as well as the nature of GIS implementation in educational systems, in the first section of this work. The second main component of our report delves into the findings of a study conducted among university professors at the Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies on the possibility of incorporating GIS into a business management education programme. GIS is also a significant commercial and educational training tool, with over 100 different topics using it at the university level (Korucu, 2012). The value of GIS in education is widely recognised, and it is now a powerful tool for students of geography, architecture, business management, natural resource management, natural science, public health and medicine, engineering, law, military science, social science and ecology, urbanisation and planning to conduct research and present their findings. As GIS technology becomes more integrated into a wider range of businesses, so does the demand for qualified personnel. This is an excellent chance to include Geographic Information Systems in a bachelor's or master's degree programme. In this context, we propose to explain the nature and features of GIS, as well as the nature of GIS implementation in educational systems, in the first section of this work. The second main component of our report delves into the findings of a study conducted among university professors at the Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies on the possibility of incorporating GIS into a business management education programme.

The current state of knowledge concerning the adoption of GIS in education:
 
A Geographic Information System (GIS) is a set of hardware and software for storing, retrieving, designing, analysing, and displaying geographic data (Malpica et al., 2007, p.48). The hardware system comprises of computer equipment and a network with an external device architecture, with the computer serving as a GIS keeper, and the software system containing five sub-systems, namely data entering, pre-processing, data storage and administration, and location analysis (Wei, 2011). According to Tomlinson, GIS's capacity to evaluate local data is frequently viewed as an important aspect in its definition, and it is frequently utilised in literature as a differentiating feature of GIS in other systems (2003). GIS data is a numerical model of characteristics or events that occur on or near the earth's surface. Information describing the status, position, and spatial relationships between enterprises, as well as their qualities, is known as location data. These dates are saved in various formats depending on the kind of data, such as photographic maps or scanned pictures, and are referred to as "raster" or "vector" data in the Cartesian integration system (Dobrică & Colesca, 2009).

These dates might be associated with natural or manmade items that are standing or moving; short-term events (e.g., earthquakes, accidents); location (address); a local network that represents relationships between objects or events; or an object that can be monitored anywhere (e.g., ozone depletion in the atmosphere). All of these groups share an area that is undeveloped but well maintained and has descriptive characteristics. By integrating an object's position and characteristics, it is possible to create various maps, as well as location queries and analyses that take into account the spatial relationship between items. An examination of GIS records indicates that GIS procedures have developed throughout time, demonstrating how technology has progressed. Thus, he defined GIS as "a specific system of information systems in which a site provides visuals on dispersed objects according to geographical, functional, or events, which may be explained" in (Dueker., 1979).

Points, lines, and polygons are examples of space. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are "a complete mapping application designed to record, store, analyse, query, edit, retrieve, alter, and display terrestrial data in the form of charts, tables, 3D pictures, and maps in the form of charts, tables, and 3D images and maps." Satellite imagery is utilised to verify the quantity of new dwellings in a business area, while individual data is employee in GIS. As Azaz (2011) claims, knowing that site analysis is integrated in business allows you to make better selections.

Although research studies on the entire capability of Geographic Information Systems as decision-making tools have been done since the 1990s (Landis, 1993; Crossland et al., 1995; Campbell & Masser, 1996), the way GIS should be. Only a few years ago, private companies began to understand the benefits given by GIS and began to employ GIS technology for their business needs, managed by the nature of the business and the types of issues it should be used for. Consider how it is portrayed in the literature (Harder, 1997; Boyles, 2002; Gadish, 2008).
Determine where to find a trading platform - new shopping centres, new stores - through demographic and competitive analysis, mapping and topographical programmes provided by potential customer planning, evaluation and market potential assessments, analyse needs by location to better assist consumers, find effective ways to deliver web-based goods or by phone order to homes, and provide retail outlets are all examples of GIS contributions to business organisations.
These are visualization (GIS ability to represent the display of data and information within a geographically defined integration system), database management (GIS capabilities, deception, and data access), modelling (GIS capability used to provide analytical support and decision making), and design and editing (GIS capability used to provide analytical support and decision making) (GIS capabilities will be used for construction, design, and editing). Do local data gathering, automated mapping, market research, transportation, distribution, strategic planning, design, and engineering may all with Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Because few trained individuals understand and respect local thinking, the process of adopting GIS in business has proven to be long and hard. As a result, company management systems have the potential to cover a significant educational vacuum. Despite its significant qualities in the classroom, there are a few reasons why educational institutions should limit their usage of GIS. This involves having sufficient technical expertise and information on GIS software from teachers, as well as the reality that learning and implementing GIS takes a long time. Furthermore, issues such as establishing the technological infrastructure for GIS applications in schools (Kerski, 2003; Walker, 2004), the high cost of GIS software (Wiegand, 2001; Johansson, 2003), and the difficulty in locating the proper foundation may occur (Wiegand, 2001).

Reference:

Gadish, D., 2007. Incorporating geographic information systems 	into an MBA program. Journal of Education and Human Development, 1(2), pp. 1-8.

Harder, C., 1997. GIS means business. Redlands: ESRI Press

Boyles, D., 2002. GIS means business. Vol.2. Redlands: ESRI Press

Crossland, M.D., Perkins, W.C. & Wynne, B.E., 1995. Spatial Decision Support Systems: An Overview of Technology and a Test of Efficacy. Decision Support Systems, 14(3),  pp. 219-235
 Campbell, H. & Masser, I., 1996. GIS and Organizations: How Effective are GIS in Practice? Londra: Taylor and Francis, Ltd.
 
Landis, J.D., 1993. GIS Capabilities, Uses, and Organizational Issues. In: G.H. Castle, ed. 1993. Profiting From a Geographic Information System. Fort Collins, CO: GIS World. Inc. pp. 23-53

Dobrică, R. & Colesca, S., 2009. Geographical data management in GIS systems. Economia seria Management, 12(2), pp. 196-207.

Malpica, J.A., Alonso, M.C. & Sanz M.A., 2007. Dempster–Shafer Theory in geographic information systems: A survey. Expert Systems with Applications, 32, pp. 47-55.Wei, W., 2011. Research on the Application of Geographic Information System in Tourism Management. Procedia Environmental Sciences, 12(2), pp. 1104-1109.

Korucu, M., 2012. GIS and types of GIS education programs. Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 46, pp. 209-215. 

Jankowski, P., 2009. Towards participatory geographic information systems for community-based environmental decision making. Journal of Environmental Management, 90, pp. 1966-197

Dueker, K.J., 1979. Land Resource Information Systems: A Review of Fifteen Years Experience. Geo-Processing, 1, pp. 105-128.

Azaz, L., 2011. The use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in Business. International Conference on Humanities, Geography and Economics. [pdf] Planetary Scientific Research Centre. Available at: <http://psrcentre.org/images/extraimages/ 1211200.pdf> [Accessed 28 May 2014]

Walker, S. L., 2004. GIS and Students as Scientists, Constructivist Approaches to Science Curriculum Restructuring. Geographic Learning Environments Monograph, 1.

Wiegand, P., 2001. Forum Geographical Information Systems (GIS) in Education. International Research in Geographical and Environmental Education, 10(1), pp. 68-71
 




## About Geospaces


            