# Basics of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing ‣
####	Amanda D. Aragon
Remote sensing is a technique for gathering information from a distance. Photogrammetry is a three-dimensional coordinate system that use photographs as a primary metrology tool. 
---

***Introduction:***

Photogrammetry is a three-dimensional coordinate system that use photographs as a primary metrology tool. Albrecht Meydenbauer, a Prussian architect, coined the word "photogrammetry" in 1867. Photogrammetry services on topographic maps are well established, but they have become increasingly popular in recent years.

Remote sensing is a technique for gathering information from a distance. The phrase "remote sensor" comes from the fact that data about objects and characteristics is acquired without having to encounter them. The remote sensor was initially intended to capture satellite pictures with a high number of colour bands. Remote sensor tools are being employed with various sorts of photos to help gather 2D and output data, such as slopes (Pillai, 2015). 

***Integrating aerial photogrammetry and remote sensing technology with new stadiums and sensors***

Aerial light sensors have been more popular for photogrammetry and remote sensing (PRS) applications in recent years. The flexibility and capacity to collect high-resolution geometric data, as well as the incredible spread of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) in the PRS area, have contributed to this achievement (Clapuyt, Vanacker, & Van Oost, 2016; Colomina & Molina, 2014). The utilisation of these adaptable and adaptable platforms has resulted in significant advancements in geodata collecting on aerial platforms. However, it's vital to note that man-made and in-person surveys differ in a number of ways, including flight time, ground coverage, and data collection procedures, even if they have a same basis. The use of digital cameras for photography is clearly one of the essential aspects, while antiquated analogue cameras on manufactured aircraft may still be employed for tiny projects.
For the effective collecting of airborne data sets, a precise flight plan is required. This is because ground-based initiatives like close-range photogrammetry (Luhmann, Robson, Kyle, & Boehm, 2014) and terrestrial laser scanning have the ability to expand the tested region and the user does not have direct sensor control (Shan & Toth, 2009 ; Vosselman & Maas, 2010). The design of the equipment specifies various phases that may be gathered based on the description of the items to be acquired on the trip and its technical requirements:

•	Choosing the right sensor for the job; 
•	Airplane design; and
•	Controls analysis during flying operations.

The senses are frequently divided into passive and active categories. Active sensors use local light to reconstitute a magnetic signal, which the sensor displays, restores, and records. New sensors, such as single-photon LIDAR’s, are projected to be available in the near future. Typically, sensors only produce one sort of radiometric data into the visible spectrum (RGB, panchromatic). Some sensors use a wavelength that is near infrared (Alba et al., 2011) or thermal infrared (Budzier & Garlach, 2011). Due of their small size and weight, single-frame cameras are commonly used in UAS payloads. In this work, we cover the most up-to-date methods for planning a flight based on the many types of sensors. Human and private platforms are studied separately wherever possible, as with single-frame cameras. Other findings are obtained in the "Conclusions," as well as a few crucial elements for future development planning for the flight plan.

We study passive optical sensors in PRS based on their geometry, which is generally a primary view of collinearity (Kraus, 2007). Standalone cameras and line scanner systems are the two basic forms of camera systems. The first might be built on a single-frame camera with a network that contains a simple sensor grid with a resolution of several hundred megapixels. The picture is gathered line by line in line scanner systems until the plane lands. To collect distorted pictures in a multi-camera system taken by piloted planes, systems consisting of numerous single-frame cameras with diverse views are prevalent nowadays. In this example, numerous intermediate viewing cameras, which are subsequently re-mapped, receive pictures and radio metrically merged to generate a bigger distinct image format (Photometrics, 2017). Depending on the technology used, planning an online PRS campaign need a consistent methodology. Human and private platforms are studied separately wherever possible, as with single-frame cameras. Some characteristics that are directly related to the flight plan are maintained under the "data gathering" section.

***E-Learning is the best practice in photogrammetry and remote sensing, and GIS:***

In 1992, the ISPRS Commission's 'Computer Assisted Teaching' working group was formed. At the 1996 ISPRS Conference, the first competition for computer-assisted teaching software was held. Companies, in addition to colleges, have realised the value of online courses and webcasts (CTA, 2010). During the years 1988 to 1992, the ISPRS began emphasising computer-assisted instruction. The Commission VI / 2 'Computer' working group has had a considerable influence on course quality and acceptability. Visualization of instructional materials is possible because to high-speed internet, fast CPUs, and graphics cards. Mobile gadgets help us get closer to our aim of lifelong learning. Companies, in addition to institutions, have realised the value of online courses and webcasting. This manner, a large variety of users may be reached at a low cost to all parties concerned. A list of known and free writers spanning our topics has been provided on the WG VI / 2 website (ACCENT, 2006).

Different forms of e-learning resources may be distinguished: textbooks, interactive textbooks, tutorials, podcasts, YouTube videos, and webinars. In the following paragraphs, we will look at a few notable cases. Of course, there are e-learning sites that are not included in this list. This work may be viewed as a review of prior publications (König, 2009) that describe various remote sensing, photogrammetry, and GIS e-learning courses.

•	a guidebook
•	Textbooks that are interactive
•	Podcasts with video
•	Webinars
•	Videos on YouTube

***References:***	

Clapuyt, F., Vanacker, V., & Van Oost, K. (2016). Reproducibility of UAV-based earth topography reconstructions based on Structure-from-Motion algorithms. Geomorphology, 260, 4–15. [Crossref], [Web of Science ®], [Google Scholar]

Colomina, I., & Molina, P. (2014). Unmanned aerial systems for photogrammetry and remote sensing: A review. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 92, 79–97. [Crossref], [Web of Science ®], [Google Scholar]

Luhmann, T., Robson, S., Kyle, S., & Boehm, J. (2014). Close range photogrammetry: 3D imaging techniques (2nd ed., p. 684). Germany: Walter De Gruyter Inc. [Google Scholar]

Shan, J., & Toth, C.K. (2009). Topographic laser scanning and ranging. Principles and processing. Boca Raton, FL: Taylor and Francis Group. [Google Scholar]

Vosselman, G., & Maas, H.G. (2010). Airborne and terrestrial laser scanning (p. 320). Boca Raton, FL: Taylor and Francis Group. [Google Scholar]

Alba, M., Barazzetti, L., & Scaioni, M. (2011). Filtering vegetation from terrestrial point clouds with low-cost near infrared cameras. The Italian Journal of Remote Sensing, 43(2), 55–75. [Crossref], [Google Scholar]

Budzier, H., & Garlach, G. (2011). Thermal infrared sensors, theory, optimization and practice (p. 302). Chichester, UK: John Wiley & Sons. [Crossref], [Google Scholar]

Kraus, K. (2007). Photogrammetry: Geometry from Images and Laser, Scans (2nd ed., p. 459). Germany: Walter de Gruyter. [Crossref], [Google Scholar]

Photometrics. (2017). New-generation CCD/EMCCD technology. A review of eXcelon™ technology (Technical Note). Retrieved January 20, 2018, from https://www.photometrics.com/resources/technotes/pdfs/eXcelon-TechNote.pdf [Google Scholar]

ACCENT, 2006: The Remote Sensing of Atmospheric Constituents from Space – E-learning Workshop, July 2006, 58 pages. (http://troposat.iup.uni-heidelberg.de/ AT2/Reports_and_papers/2006_09_e-learning_report.pdf).

 CTA, 2010: Training Kit on Participatory Spatial Information Management and Communication. CTA, The Netherlands and IFAD, Italy (ISBN: 978-92-9081-446-7).
 
König, G., 2009: Best practice in e-learning: Applications in Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and GIS. Int. Arch. of Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Science, 38-6/W7. 8 pages (http://www.isprs.org/ proceedings/XXXVIII/6-W7/).

Pillai, A. N. (2015, July 12). A Brief Introduction to Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing - GIS Lounge. GIS Lounge; www.gislounge.com. https://www.gislounge.com/a-brief-introduction-to-photogrammetry-and-remote-sensing/

## About Geospaces


            